# Concept 1

In the present example an intuitive demonstration of forced perception is made. Two spheres are used which, in perspective, look the same size. However, one of them can be resized in such a way that it changes size in the world, but the camera perceives them as the same size. This happens because of the distance in relation to the camera.

{{< hint info >}} **Instructions**
- Select any of the spheres with a number (0 to 2)
- Press w or s to zoom in or zoom out on the sphere
- On the left screen you will see that the spheres do not change size.
- On the right screen you will see the difference in size and distance between them.
{{< /hint >}} 

<iframe src="https://editor.p5js.org/ggarciarom/full/Rc5Kcqu2l"
width="600"
height="350"
></iframe>

# Concept 2

In this example we used perspective and size to give 2 different images depending on the point of view, at the beginning the camera is in such a way that it seems that the chicken eats the sphere, but if we change the perspective of camera 1 (left) now we can see the bird inside the sphere, in the second camera (the right side) we can see how nothing has changed but moving the sphere the new perspective becomes real and now the chicken is enclosed in the sphere.

This case, like so many others (for example grabbing the moon with the hand taking into account that because of its remoteness it is perceived as small), allowed to move the object without losing the size we see (we can make it actually fit with what we are looking for), this is the basis of the superliminal game.

{{< hint info >}} **Instructions**
- With the mouse, move the camera until the bird appears to be inside the camera
- You can zoom in or zoom out with the mouse scroll wheel
- Select the sphere with the number key 0
- Press w until on the right screen you see that the sphere catches the bird
- You can now move the left view back to see the trapped bird
{{< /hint >}} 


<iframe src="https://editor.p5js.org/ggarciarom/full/lZudkeyJC"
width="600"
height="350"
></iframe>

# Concept 3

The following is a visual effect achieved by changing the size of a sphere with respect to the plane shown. It shows how the grid fits into the background plane to generate the desired visual effect.

{{< hint info >}} **Instructions**
- Select the sphere with the number key 0
- Press w until the sphere disappears from view across the plane, and press an instant more
- Rotate the camera with the mouse and you will see the sphere against the background which will generate an optical effect.
{{< /hint >}} 

<iframe src="https://editor.p5js.org/ggarciarom/full/wXRNB6ZXu"
width="600"
height="350"
></iframe>

# Pixel Ratio:
- it is a function that takes the world and the eye ( the observer's point) and returns the units of a world in a location, namely it gives a quantity of world in a pixel

referencia : https://github.com/VisualComputing/p5.treegl/blob/main/p5.treegl.js

# Results

By means of the present examples it can be seen how changes in size at the same rate as changes in distance result in no apparent change in the camera and screen. However, when implementing the programs the following problems were encountered.

- The size change is still noticeable in the space of the camera and screen, especially when zoomed in or when the key is pressed interruptedly.

- When the object is at very close distances to the camera the object changes its perceived size. Also, when the object crosses the camera, the view of the object is lost and sometimes this can cause problems to the scene, sometimes because the object increases its size disproportionately.