# Conclusions

The Superliminal game is made possible by elements of rendering that occur in computer graphics. It is through the process of the rendering pipeline that it is possible to achieve the effect of forced perception on the players. Even though an object changes in the world, because of its *location* and *size* in the world, this change is neither perceivable in the camera nor projectable on the screen. 

However, the present work does not consider other attributes of rendering such as shadows and light, which affect the result of the projection of objects according to their depth. If this were the case, the shadows and light of a distant object will be perceived differently by the camera, even if its size is the same in the projection.

The triangle proportionality theorem is indispensable for the forced perception effect. It allows to calculate the new coordinates in *x* and *y* from the change occurring in *z*. This happens because in the world the object must keep the same angle with respect to the visual field so that its projection on the screen does not change. 

Finally, through this work it can be noted that pixels are a representation model of the world, i.e., they contain information about the world, such as color. However, sometimes the same pixel contains more information about the world, due to the remoteness of the objects.

# Future work:
This work puts a starting point for thinking about new visual illusions from the effect of forced perception, which deceives human perception about what they are actually seeing through a screen. One can think of a new era of games in which perception plays an important role and brings an innovative effect, as well as in other applications of rendering such as animation and may also be the film industry.

Also, we can think of more intuitive ways of actions to change the size of objects in the world, making them different from pressing the keys *w* and *z*, so that the player understands in a better way what he is doing when he changes the size of objects in the world.

On the other hand, it is important to understand more clearly the concepts of human vision, in order to understand how attributes such as depth affect the forced perception of objects.

Finally, all these transformations are done while both the camera and the object are still. A future application would be to realize the illusion of forced perception when there is motion in either of these two spaces.

# References

- https://blog.playstation.com/2020/06/30/breaking-down-the-tech-behind-superliminals-mind-bending-illusions/

- https://findnerd.com/list/view/Computer-Graphics-Different-Spaces/6982/ 

- https://tfetimes.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/F.Dunn-I.Parberry-3D-Math-Primer-for-Graphics-and-Game-Development.pdf

- https://github.com/VisualComputing/p5.treegl/tree/main/examples/subliminal